Add EIP: NFT Dynamic Ownership (#7158)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7110.md

---
eip: 7110
title: NFT Dynamic Ownership
description: An innovative extension to NFT token that introduces dynamic ownership and nesting capabilities.
author: hiddenintheworld.eth (@hiddenintheworld)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7110-nft-dynamic-ownership/14516
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-06-01
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

> A standard interface for non-fungible tokens (NFTs) with dynamic ownership, which extends the capabilities of the original `ERC-721` standard by enabling NFTs to be owned by either addresses or other NFTs. The proposed `ERC-721D` standard introduces dynamic ownership in the world of NFTs. Instead of a token being owned solely by an address, as it is in the `ERC-721` standard, tokens following the `ERC-721D` standard can be owned by either an address or another token. This opens up new possibilities and adds an extra layer of complexity and opportunity in the NFT space. This EIP outlines the rules and functions needed to support this dynamic ownership model while maintaining compatibility with `ERC-721` standards.

Reviewer: When you're referring to another proposal, don't enclose it in backticks. You have to use a link the first time (per proposal), but after that you can just reference the proposal as normal.

When referring to your interfaces, however, you should use backticks.

```suggestion
A standard interface for non-fungible tokens (NFTs) with dynamic ownership, which extends the capabilities of the original [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) standard by enabling NFTs to be owned by either addresses or other NFTs. The proposed `ERC721D` interface introduces dynamic ownership in the world of NFTs. Instead of a token being owned solely by an address, as it is in the ERC-721 standard, tokens following the `ERC721D` interface can be owned by either an address or another token. This opens up new possibilities and adds an extra layer of complexity and opportunity in the NFT space. This EIP outlines the rules and functions needed to support this dynamic ownership model while maintaining compatibility with ERC-721 standards.
```

> A standard interface for non-fungible tokens (NFTs) with dynamic ownership, which extends the capabilities of the original `ERC-721` standard by enabling NFTs to be owned by either addresses or other NFTs. The proposed `ERC-721D` standard introduces dynamic ownership in the world of NFTs. Instead of a token being owned solely by an address, as it is in the `ERC-721` standard, tokens following the `ERC-721D` standard can be owned by either an address or another token. This opens up new possibilities and adds an extra layer of complexity and opportunity in the NFT space. This EIP outlines the rules and functions needed to support this dynamic ownership model while maintaining compatibility with `ERC-721` standards.

Reviewer: I think you can probably cut a bit from your abstract and move it into motivation. The abstract should be a terse technical summary of the proposal that gives the reader a general idea of how the proposal works.

## Motivation

> Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) have paved the way for unique digital assets. However, they are inherently restricted by their static ownership. `ERC-721D` aims to innovate the concept of NFT ownership by allowing tokens to have dynamic ownership chains. This could unlock an entirely new dimension for tokenized digital assets and decentralized applications (dApps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NFTs have paved the way for unique digital assets. However, they are inherently restricted by their static ownership. `ERC721D` aims to innovate the concept of NFT ownership by allowing tokens to have dynamic ownership chains. This could unlock an entirely new dimension for tokenized digital assets and decentralized applications (dApps).
```

## Specification

### Overview

> `ERC-721D` is a standard interface for NFTs with dynamic ownership. It provides essential functionalities to manage, transfer, and track the ownership of tokens. It is an extension of the `ERC-721` standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ERC721D` is a standard interface for NFTs with dynamic ownership. It provides essential functionalities to manage, transfer, and track the ownership of tokens. It is an extension of the ERC-721 standard.
```

### Data Structures

> The `ERC-721D` standard introduces a new data structure, **```Ownership```**. Each token has an **```Ownership```** associated with it that consists of the **```ownerAddress```** and the **```tokenId```**. The **```ownerAddress```** is the address of the token owner, which can be an EOA or a contract address. If the owner is another NFT, then tokenId represents the ID of the owner token.

Reviewer: That's a lot of bold!

```suggestion
This proposal introduces a new data structure, `Ownership`. Each token has an `Ownership` associated with it that consists of the `ownerAddress` and the `tokenId`. The `ownerAddress` is the address of the token owner, which can be an EOA or a contract address. If the owner is another NFT, then `tokenId` represents the ID of the owner token.
```

> 

Reviewer: Your specification section doesn't include enough detail to be implementable. You'll need more in-depth explanations of the changes to, for example, `ownerOf` so that someone reading your standard can make those changes.

### Functions

> The `ERC-721D` standard defines a set of functions for interacting with tokens. It includes existing functions from the `ERC-721` standard, like **```balanceOf```** and **```ownerOf```**, with necessary modifications to support dynamic ownership. It also introduces new functions like **```setOwnership```** to manage dynamic ownership. The **```mint```** and **```burn```** functions have been overridden to account for changes in the balance of dynamic owners. The **```_transfer```** function has been updated to handle transfers involving dynamic owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal defines a set of functions for interacting with tokens. It includes existing functions from the ERC-721 standard, like `balanceOf` and `ownerOf`, with necessary modifications to support dynamic ownership. It also introduces new functions like `setOwnership` to manage dynamic ownership. The `mint` and `burn` functions have been overridden to account for changes in the balance of dynamic owners. The `_transfer` function has been updated to handle transfers involving dynamic owners.
```

> The `ERC-721D` standard defines a set of functions for interacting with tokens. It includes existing functions from the `ERC-721` standard, like **```balanceOf```** and **```ownerOf```**, with necessary modifications to support dynamic ownership. It also introduces new functions like **```setOwnership```** to manage dynamic ownership. The **```mint```** and **```burn```** functions have been overridden to account for changes in the balance of dynamic owners. The **```_transfer```** function has been updated to handle transfers involving dynamic owners.

Reviewer: The `mint`, `burn`, and `_transfer` functions aren't actually part of ERC-721. They appear in a few popular libraries implementing ERC-721, but again, aren't part of the standard.

An ERC only defines the externally visible behaviour of a smart contract, and should not impose any particular implementation choices.

> ### Implementation

Reviewer: Please move any implementations to the reference implementation section. The specification section should only really contain an interface.

Below is the full implementation:

```solidity

> // SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT 

Reviewer: Code contained within the EIP itself must be `CC0-1.0` licensed. Code in the `assets/` directory may have other open source licenses that don't impose too much of implementers. `MIT` would be fine there.

    // The function follows the ERC721 standard requirements.
    function _isApprovedOrOwner(address spender, uint256 tokenId) internal view override returns (bool) {
        require(_exists(tokenId), "ERC721D: operator query for nonexistent token");
        address owner = ownerOf(tokenId);
        return (spender == owner || getApproved(tokenId) == spender || isApprovedForAll(owner, spender));
    }

    // Overrides the `balanceOf` function from the ERC721 standard.
    // Returns the balance (number of owned tokens) of the `owner` address.
    // It checks for the zero address and returns the balance from the internal _balances mapping.
    function balanceOf(address owner) public view override(ERC721) returns (uint256) {
        require(owner != address(0), "ERC721D: balance query for the zero address");
        return _balances[owner];
    }

    // This function returns the ownership details of the `tokenId` token.
    // Returns a struct with the owner's address and the token id of the token owned by the returned token (if any).
    function owners(uint256 tokenId) public view returns (Ownership memory) {
        return _owners[tokenId];
    }

}
```

## Rationale

> The `ERC-721D` standard seeks to expand the potential of NFTs by introducing dynamic ownership. This innovation could open up new use cases in the fields of digital assets, dApps, digital identity, and more. As the digital economy evolves, the need for complex and dynamic relationships between tokens will become increasingly relevant, and the `ERC-721D` standard addresses this need.

Reviewer: This reads more like motivation. The Rationale section should justify technical choices made within the EIP itself, while the Motivation section justifies the EIP as a whole.

An example of something you _may_ want to explain in the Rationale section is why you chose EIP-721 as the base of your extension and not EIP-1155.

## Backwards Compatibility

> `ERC-721D` is fully backward compatible with the `ERC-721` standard. It extends the `ERC-721` standard by adding dynamic ownership while maintaining all existing functionalities. Any existing `ERC-721` token can be upgraded to an `ERC-721D` token while retaining its original capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ERC721D` is fully backward compatible with the ERC-721 standard. It extends ERC-721 by adding dynamic ownership while maintaining all existing functionalities. Any existing ERC-721 token can be upgraded to an `ERC721D` token while retaining its original capabilities.
```
